# GanUpsampling
A research paper I authored that introduces the concept of upsampling using Generative Adversarial Neural Networks in order to augment limited image datasets. 

# **A Combinational Study of Discriminative & Generative  Adversarial Neural Network Models to Improve Deep  Learning Results for Food Recognition**

Abstract In this study, GANs (Generative Adversarial Neural Networks) are used to attempt to  improve the recognition results of healthy plate images. The GANs models are used to  generate synthetic data that can be used to augment real training data sets. GANs models  have various architectures and methods of implementations. Notably, the CGAN or  conditional GANs model is a type of architecture where the class label is leveraged to add  information gain to the model. Other notable GAN models are the WGAN, WGAN-GP  and DCGAN. Healthy plate recognition problems have been long sought after in the  health and fitness industry for athletes and individuals to be able to track their food for  logging purposes. The main aim of logging nutritional facts is to be able to make  informed decisions on eating habits to improve health and wellness. The main limitations  lie in free form healthy plates that do not possess a nutritional table content or a barcode  for scanning for easy logging. Traditional attempts to recognize food types via images  have fallen short in accuracy due to the lack of deliberate attempts of training  discriminative models due to low abundance of data by platform providers.  Through this research, it was determined that GAN models can in fact prove to be an  effective method of oversampling an imbalanced class. The results of the research show a  significant improvement in the recognition rate of a VGG16 transfer learning model in recognizing an imbalanced class from 62% at baseline to 72% after augmenting with  synthetically generated data using a WGAN-GP model and 69% using a DCGAN model respectively, without any form of hyperparameter tuning.
